Next user action, thinks back,
next user action, type.
Can you see this type?
Is the user is gonna type?
I don't know, let's have something
more interesting than Hi.
I like Ian,
Ian the user is gonna type Ian.
>> Let's go.
>> Exactly.
>> Let's go Ian.
And we know actually this was me.
I, that's gonna trigger the handle
input function run, but
just keep it more interesting.
We'll have it, grab the whole each time it
runs anywhere to be updating the value and
running through and
adding i to the pose and then to the div.
So we'll do start with Ian,
typed Ian into a field
because you cleared it now.
My pens, because you've cleared it now.
And so
immediately on the DOM Ian shows up.
If only we could grow it from here and
stick it on this div,
if only but we can't not.
Instead, fortunately,
another event is going to
trigger this handle input
function to come on to,
I needed to wipe our handle
click from the callback queue,
and then clear our call stack,
and we get our handle.
Well, I'm not gonna write it here,
it goes into the queue and
handleInput goes on to the call stack,
there it is, handleInput.
And our orange is back to mark that
this is being handled by JavaScript.
And add it to the call stack it goes.
And now our handle input is
gonna be executed by JavaScript.
A brand new what everybody?
>> Execution context.
>> Beautiful,
a brand new execution context.
Perfect, and into it we go.
Where we are going to
update our JavaScript data.
With, okay, let me track through this.
With our current, we've got no current,
we gotta go get using the value getter.
JsInput.value is a getter of
the associated corresponding C++ DOM
object input, we get the value.
It comes back as they go in.
And then that will update our post value,
poster value in JavaScript.
So there's Ian, Ian is now safe to post.
Beautiful, look at that.
And now we are going to update our-
>> [LAUGH]
>> We're gonna update our text
content setter to take that post.
Now, with a value of Ian, and
we're going to set it on the DOM element
as the value of text, Ian, there we go.
And then that will show up on our view for
the user.
So that has updated what
the user sees in the div.
Anyone read why we were
doing this I literally can't
remember between the pen
episodes of the past ten minutes?
No, I'm kidding.
So we now have a more complex,
to be fair, maybe that's a good thing.
Because we now have a more complex UI.
We are starting to struggle to think
about how it's doing its work.
We have had to flow the data back and
forth.
This already, even with two elements,
even with two handlers,
is becoming harder to reason about.
I had to work out, so
I had my post data here,
I had the input field with some default
text set in line 5, what's on your mind?
I then chose hand, look in my code here,
line 5, line 9, line 12.
Every one of those lines in a, I mean,
actual code here is like
probably nine lines of code.
Every one of those lines, line 5, line 9,
line 12 affects what the user sees,
affects our view.
In line 5, I fill in my default
text with what's on your mind.
In line 9,
I update my text content if the user has
started writing something
with that post value.
Only if the user started
to write something.
So now I've got a string
of conditional changes,
initially display what's on your mind?
If user starts to write something, well,
sorry, if the user clicks, remove that.
If user start, which is the handle,
click set the back.
If user then starts to write something,
start display something.
What if somehow the user was able to
write something without clicking?
I mean, then we've got still
the what's on your mind text in the,
I'm not saying that it could happen,
but like I've got a reason through all
those possible paths the user can take.
This is a flow of user actions with
conditional on that changes to view.
And this is with two little boxes.
Imagine a thousand elements,
it would be profoundly difficult.
It's not that what we choose
to do here is right or wrong.
But it is one way of trying to prevent
this reasoning process of working
out conditional on the last thing the user
did display that, did they take that?
Okay, so it took that list steps?
No, we only allow the user to
affect state, posh word for data.
And then every single thing
the user can ever see will be
dependent in some way on that data.
There will be a full one-to-one
relationship between saved data and
what the user sees.
And there's a mindset shift that we take.
Yeah, so we're changing our view based
on multiple possible user interactions.
We had two handlers, as soon as
we introduced multiple of those,
the route the user can take, is this one
better run after the click happened.
Otherwise the user is going to be still
see text here, will it append it?
I mean, technically here
it would overwrite it, but
depending on how we did it,
we could totally end up appending.
So it would say what's up, and then Ian
starts writing and now it says what's up.
Ian, that's not so bad, I guess.
>> [LAUGH]
>> It's like a great bonus feature.
But we're having to reason even with
this tiny amount of content on the page.
Reason down the user's journey
in all these expanding pause.
They exponential essentially
because you are 40 handlers for
a thousand different elements, each of
them has 40 handlers, theory, right?
Maybe, and then each of those can
affect a thousand other elements.
You're dealing with a 40 by 40 by
1,000 possible scenario paths.
Actually even more than that, right?
Because it's 40, you can take one,
and then another, and another,
all of them are depending on the previous
action the user took to ensure,
we need a way to make these changes
as predictable as possible, how?
Restrict every change to view
to be via one, an updated data.
And two, a run of a single data
to view converter function.
It's just one approach, but
an immensely popular one.
React, Next, View, Angular,
Svelte, all use it.
It's also gonna allow us to do
semi-visual coding as well.